docs/tutorials/data-based-matching.md, before:

---
id: data-based-matching
sidebar_position: 2
title: Data-Based Matching
---

## Why?

Before data-based matching, `cross-seed` relied on torrent files to be able to search for cross-seeds. In this method, it analyzes the list of files stored in the `.torrent` file and searches your trackers for similar files. If the files found from the remote torrent (candidate) match the local torrent (searchee), this is a compatible cross-seed. To determine if the files match, the files in the candidate must be a subset of the searchee and contain the exact name and size as those in the searchee.

Data-based matching allows cross seed to not require the `.torrent` file, and instead to look at actual files to search for matches. This is great if you have the actual files to cross-seed, but not the `.torrent` files (think usenet). It still generates a searchee, but the method by which it generates is different. For one, `.torrent`-based searchees are limited to matching files within the torrent file. Data-based searching can create this same searchee, but can also traverse into the folder to generate a searchee from an individual file within the folder. This allows `cross-seed` to take a searchee with a single nested file:

```
torrent_name/
├─ torrent_file.mkv
```

and separately match a single file torrent for `torrent_file.mkv`

Due to using file system links, data-based matching also opens the door for "risky" matching where the name of the searchee can be ignored and only file size is used, with a couple of caveats: 1) false positives are possible with this method, so it is recommended that you have `cross-seed` recheck torrents added during risky matching, and 2) risky matching only finds extra results for single-file searchees.

## Setup

Data-based matching adds a few parameters:

[`dataDirs`](../basics/options.md#datadirs): This specifies what directories `cross-seed` should generate searchees from. They are specified as an array like the [`torznab`](../basics/options.md#torznab) setting.

```js
dataDirs: ["/data/torrents/", "/data/media/"],
```

[`linkDir`](../basics/options.md#linkdir): This specifies where you want your links `cross-seed` generates to be placed. While technically possible to specify the same directory as your `dataDirs`, this is not recommended and could result in bad interactions between existing and new files. Instead, it should be a separate directory visible to both your torrent client and cross-seed.

[`linkType`](../basics/options.md#linktype): Either `"hardlink"` or `"symlink"`. [**See FAQ for more information**](../basics/faq-troubleshooting#what-linktype-should-i-use-data-based-searching).

-   `symlink`: If a source is removed for a `hardlink`, the new link still takes up space which may not be desirable. If a symlink's source is removed, it's merely a broken symlink taking up almost no space on your file system.
-   `hardlink`: These can be more flexible. For `hardlink`s, only the linkDir will need to be visible (with a matching path mapping) to your torrent client, whereas for `symlink` both the `linkDir` and all specified `dataDirs` need to be visible with matching path mappings to your torrent client.

[`matchMode`](../basics/options.md#matchmode): Either `"safe"` or `"risky"` for the time being. As explained above, `"risky"` matching will only use file size. `"safe"` uses the existing method of name + file sizes.

[`skipRecheck`](../basics/options.md#skiprecheck): Currently only works in qBittorrent and Deluge. If set to false, `cross-seed` will inject the torrent as paused and tell qBitorrent to recheck the torrent contents. This is recommended with `matchMode: "risky"` due to potential false positives. As of 5.0.2, this applies to all torrents added, not just those found by data-based matching. This will change in a later revision.

`maxDataDepth`: Determines how deep to traverse the file tree for generating searches. If you specify a dataDir of `/data/torrents`, the depth is as follows:

```
data/
├─ torrents/                 # 0
│  ├─ torrent_name/          # 1
│  |  ├─ torrent_file.mkv    # 2
│  |  ├─ torrent_subfolder   # 2
│  |  |  ├─ torrent_item.mkv # 3
```

Be careful setting this to a higher value than 2 (if the dataDir is your torrents folder), else it might generate a larger than intended number of searchees that will not realistically get many matches.

## Why linking?

Linking (and thus the [`linkDir`](../basics/options.md#linkdir)) allows `cross-seed` to add torrents that do not have the same name or structure as the original torrent. While qBittorrent supports renaming of files within the torrent, this is not supported on all clients so linking is generally a more robust solution.

_All_ matches found will be linked into the [`linkDir`](../basics/options.md#linkdir), even perfect matches. If a file already exists in the [`linkDir`](../basics/options.md#linkdir) with the same name, `cross-seed` will not overwrite the file. This means that using the same [`linkDir`](../basics/options.md#linkdir) as [`dataDirs`](../basics/options.md#datadirs) _should_ be possible but is not something we encourage.

Eventually, this can be taken further than it is now. `cross-seed` could eventually make per-match directories, allowing for partial matches of torrents without the risk of colliding files (no need to worry about differing nfos between two torrents).

Links also allow us to "normalize" the depth of matches. If a match is found at dataDepth 2, it can be linked up to be at depth 1 in the linkDir, so that all your files found with data-based matching have the same save path, matching the linkDir. This will let it play nicer with autoTMM if your setup heavily involves that.

## Daemon mode

Data-based matching does not support RSS but does allow you to [hit the cross-seed webhook endpoint with a path](../reference/api.md#post-apiwebhook) to use for data-based searching the same way you use the existing `name` or `infoHash` parameter (but with `path`).

Commit message:

update(options/datamatching): warning about recursive linkdir

docs/tutorials/data-based-matching.md, after:

---
id: data-based-matching
sidebar_position: 2
title: Data-Based Matching
---

## Why?

Before data-based matching, `cross-seed` relied on torrent files to be able to search for cross-seeds. In this method, it analyzes the list of files stored in the `.torrent` file and searches your trackers for similar files. If the files found from the remote torrent (candidate) match the local torrent (searchee), this is a compatible cross-seed. To determine if the files match, the files in the candidate must be a subset of the searchee and contain the exact name and size as those in the searchee.

Data-based matching allows cross seed to not require the `.torrent` file, and instead to look at actual files to search for matches. This is great if you have the actual files to cross-seed, but not the `.torrent` files (think usenet). It still generates a searchee, but the method by which it generates is different. For one, `.torrent`-based searchees are limited to matching files within the torrent file. Data-based searching can create this same searchee, but can also traverse into the folder to generate a searchee from an individual file within the folder. This allows `cross-seed` to take a searchee with a single nested file:

```
torrent_name/
├─ torrent_file.mkv
```

and separately match a single file torrent for `torrent_file.mkv`

Due to using file system links, data-based matching also opens the door for "risky" matching where the name of the searchee can be ignored and only file size is used, with a couple of caveats: 1) false positives are possible with this method, so it is recommended that you have `cross-seed` recheck torrents added during risky matching, and 2) risky matching only finds extra results for single-file searchees.

## Setup

Data-based matching adds a few parameters:

[`dataDirs`](../basics/options.md#datadirs): This specifies what directories `cross-seed` should generate searchees from. They are specified as an array like the [`torznab`](../basics/options.md#torznab) setting.

```js
dataDirs: ["/data/torrents/", "/data/media/"],
```

[`linkDir`](../basics/options.md#linkdir): This specifies where you want your links `cross-seed` generates to be placed. While technically possible to specify the same directory as your `dataDirs`, this is not recommended and could result in bad interactions between existing and new files. Instead, it should be a separate directory visible to both your torrent client and cross-seed.

:::tip
It is best if your [`linkDir`](../basics/options.md#linkdir) is not _INSIDE_ of your included [`dataDirs`](../basics/options.md#datadirs) folders. This is to prevent recursive and
erroneous searches of folders used in linking folder structure.
:::

[`linkType`](../basics/options.md#linktype): Either `"hardlink"` or `"symlink"`. [**See FAQ for more information**](../basics/faq-troubleshooting#what-linktype-should-i-use-data-based-searching).

-   `symlink`: If a source is removed for a `hardlink`, the new link still takes up space which may not be desirable. If a symlink's source is removed, it's merely a broken symlink taking up almost no space on your file system.
-   `hardlink`: These can be more flexible. For `hardlink`s, only the linkDir will need to be visible (with a matching path mapping) to your torrent client, whereas for `symlink` both the `linkDir` and all specified `dataDirs` need to be visible with matching path mappings to your torrent client.

[`matchMode`](../basics/options.md#matchmode): Either `"safe"` or `"risky"` for the time being. As explained above, `"risky"` matching will only use file size. `"safe"` uses the existing method of name + file sizes.

[`skipRecheck`](../basics/options.md#skiprecheck): Currently only works in qBittorrent and Deluge. If set to false, `cross-seed` will inject the torrent as paused and tell qBitorrent to recheck the torrent contents. This is recommended with `matchMode: "risky"` due to potential false positives. As of 5.0.2, this applies to all torrents added, not just those found by data-based matching. This will change in a later revision.

`maxDataDepth`: Determines how deep to traverse the file tree for generating searches. If you specify a dataDir of `/data/torrents`, the depth is as follows:

```
data/
├─ torrents/                 # 0
│  ├─ torrent_name/          # 1
│  |  ├─ torrent_file.mkv    # 2
│  |  ├─ torrent_subfolder   # 2
│  |  |  ├─ torrent_item.mkv # 3
```

Be careful setting this to a higher value than 2 (if the dataDir is your torrents folder), else it might generate a larger than intended number of searchees that will not realistically get many matches.

## Why linking?

Linking (and thus the [`linkDir`](../basics/options.md#linkdir)) allows `cross-seed` to add torrents that do not have the same name or structure as the original torrent. While qBittorrent supports renaming of files within the torrent, this is not supported on all clients so linking is generally a more robust solution.

_All_ matches found will be linked into the [`linkDir`](../basics/options.md#linkdir), even perfect matches. If a file already exists in the [`linkDir`](../basics/options.md#linkdir) with the same name, `cross-seed` will not overwrite the file. This means that using the same [`linkDir`](../basics/options.md#linkdir) as [`dataDirs`](../basics/options.md#datadirs) _should_ be possible but is not something we encourage.

Eventually, this can be taken further than it is now. `cross-seed` could eventually make per-match directories, allowing for partial matches of torrents without the risk of colliding files (no need to worry about differing nfos between two torrents).

Links also allow us to "normalize" the depth of matches. If a match is found at dataDepth 2, it can be linked up to be at depth 1 in the linkDir, so that all your files found with data-based matching have the same save path, matching the linkDir. This will let it play nicer with autoTMM if your setup heavily involves that.

## Daemon mode

Data-based matching does not support RSS but does allow you to [hit the cross-seed webhook endpoint with a path](../reference/api.md#post-apiwebhook) to use for data-based searching the same way you use the existing `name` or `infoHash` parameter (but with `path`).
