docs/v6-migration.md, before:

---
id: v6-migration
title: v6 Migration Guide
position: 0
---

### Updates Since Initial Pre-Release

Since the initial pre-release (`6.0.0-0`) we've worked with our users and friends to iron out implementations in the most reasonable and usable way possible. As we proceed through the pre-release/testing phase for v6, further changes may be made. They will all be documented here prior to releases.

The majority of the trade-offs we've had to make have been for enhancements and meaningful features. While this update will require some users to rethink, or reconfigure, certain aspects of their setup or workflow to accommodate this; these changes were, unfortunately, unavoidable.

The enhancements we've added and changes we've made are outlined in this migration guide.

:::tip QBittorrent
While we previously advised qBittorrent users to hold off on the initial pre-release (`6.0.0-0`), we feel we now have `cross-seed` in a usable state for those users. There are [some changes](#qbittorrent) that should be noted before updating to help test. We recommend backing up your configuration directory before testing any pre-release versions.
:::

:::info Be advised
**Please read this guide thoroughly and keep in mind that it will be updated throughout the pre-release process, and after, as we fine-tune the details for clarity.**
:::

## Overview

There are several changes in `cross-seed` version 6.x. Most of them do not require any action on your part while some need to be addressed in both the configuration file ([`config.js`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cross-seed/cross-seed/master/src/config.template.cjs)) and potentially permissions or volumes/mounts.

This document outlines the changes made and the actions required to take advantage of all the new features and capabilities.

:::danger Please Note
**This is currently a pre-release of v6.** Your mileage _may vary_ on behavior and performance. We **always** recommend that before updating you make a backup of your **entire** configuration directory.

Please let us know if you run into any issues [**via Discord**](https://discord.gg/jpbUFzS5Wb)
:::

### Breaking Changes (TLDR)

| Scope or Area      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| qBittorrent        | Changes were necessary for linking enhancements made and compatibility with AutoTMM and qBittorrent. <br/><br/>`duplicateCategories` previous behavior has migrated to `.cross-seed` appended category being tagged on the cross-seeded torrent. All cross-seeds will go to linkCategory when linked and injected.<br/><br/>([Read More](#qbittorrent)) |
| API authentication | [`apiAuth`](./basics/options.md#apiauth) option was removed and the optional [`apiKey`](./basics/options.md#apikey) option was added.<br/><br/> If unspecified, cross-seed will use an autogenerated API key. [Use the API key](./reference/api#authorization) when you make calls to the `/api/webhook` endpoint and the `/api/announce` endpoint.     |
| Node               | Minimum required version: [v20](https://nodejs.org/en/download)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

:::caution HEADS-UP!
`cross-seed` v6 requires Node 20 or greater. Check your Node version with `node --version` and update if needed.

**Docker users can skip this step.**
:::

:::tip
You can grab the new [`config.template.js`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cross-seed/cross-seed/master/src/config.template.cjs) and simply go through and migrate your missing options over to your current `config.js`. Alternatively, you can add them yourself by referencing our documentation.

-   [`dataCategory -> linkCategory`](./basics/options.md#linkcategory)

-   [`apiAuth -> apiKey`](./basics/options.md#apikey)

-   [`flatLinking`](./basics/options.md#flatlinking)

-   [`blockList`](./basics/options.md#blocklist)

:::

### Stricter `config.js` Validation

One of the biggest changes made in v6 is better config validation and error messaging. Each option in the config file is validated for formatting and proper syntax. If either is incorrect, a detailed error message will tell you where and how to fix each option.

The new error messages will also provide links to specific documentation for the option and point out bad paths or permission errors if you have any.

This is not going to automatically fix anything for you, but will give you a better starting point to try and solve the issue yourself before requiring outside assistance.

### Linking Updates

We have made drastic changes to the way linking operates, both in its implementation and in expanding its capabilities. Not only is linking more versatile in what can be matched now (for instance, previously, files inside/outside a folder would not match to a torrent in the opposite folder structure - this has been fixed), but you can also take advantage of linking when searching .torrent files instead of solely applying to data-based matching.

To achieve torrent linking, you simply have to mount or give permission (if necessary) for `cross-seed` to read and write to the actual torrent data structure (downloaded files) your client uses. This will need to mirror (for docker) the mounts made in the client. Your client will also need to be able to read and write to the [`linkDir`](./basics/options.md#linkdir) folder. You do not need to specify a [`dataDirs`](./basics/options.md#datadirs) in your conig for this setup, but simply define a [`linkDir`](./basics/options.md#linkdir).

:::tip
You can still include a [`dataDirs`](./basics/options.md#datadirs) if you wish to also index and search your data, but [`dataDirs`](./basics/options.md#datadirs) isnt necessary to utilize linking behavior now.
:::

The new default linking structure in v6 in your [`linkDir`](./basics/options.md#linkdir) creates sub-folders for each indexer (for example, `/link_dir/Indexer 1/Name.of.Torrent.File.mkv`). This doesn't change or affect previously matched torrents, but if enabled will follow this new structure moving forward. Your `Indexer 1` will be the name of the indexer in Prowlarr/Jackett or [autobrr](#autobrr-update).

:::warning BE ADVISED
Auto Torrent Management in qBittorrent has presented some hurdles with implementing the new linking enhancements with qBittorrent.

**Please read the next part of this section carefully to determine what settings you will require to achieve the best results.**

During this transitional process, you can get support [**via Discord**](https://discord.gg/jpbUFzS5Wb) if you require assistance with any of the configurations.
:::

#### qBittorrent

Due to the limitations in place with qBittorrent and Auto Torrent Management's behavior, we've introduced a new option in support of the feature-sets and changes we have added.

If you are using Auto Torrent Management (AutoTMM) **in any capacity, we strongly recommend** that you enable [`flatLinking`](./basics/options.md#flatlinking) to acheive the matching and linking behavior we've added to v6. You will still be able to take advantage of the [matching enhancements](#partial-matching) in v6 with your searches.

`cross-seed` will inject all linked torrents directly to the [`linkCategory`](./basics/options.md#linkcategory) if linking is possible, otherwise direct torrent matches will behave the same as they did in v5.

### autobrr Update

If you're using [`flatLinking: false`](./basics/options.md#flatlinking), when receiving announces with the old data payload in your cross-seed autobrr filter, you might notice inconsistencies in the folders created from ones created with a search.

To address this, [autobrr's macros and documentation have been updated](https://autobrr.com/3rd-party-tools#cross-seed-filter). There is now a new macro to accommodate the new linking structure. By updating your data payload with the provided code, autobrr will now send the indexer's name from `Settings -> Indexers` instead of the "indexer identifier".

```json
{
    "name": "{{ .TorrentName }}",
    "guid": "{{ .TorrentUrl }}",
    "link": "{{ .TorrentUrl }}",
    "tracker": "{{ .IndexerName | js}}"
}
```

Simply ensure that you've updated your data and the indexer's name in autobrr matches the one in Prowlarr/Jackett, and everything will align correctly in your [`linkDir`](./basics/options.md#linkdir).

### Updated [`torrentDir`](./basics/options.md#torrentdir) Option

Previously, our recommendation if you wanted to strictly search only [`dataDirs`](./basics/options.md#datadirs) for matches was to point [`torrentDir`](./basics/options.md#torrentdir) at an empty folder. This is no longer necessary. You can now set [`torrentDir`](./basics/options.md#torrentdir) to `null` to achieve a data-only search.

### New [`blockList`](./basics/options.md#blocklist) Option

Another new option added is called [`blockList`](./basics/options.md#blocklist). This option takes an array of strings (e.g. `["example", "example2"]` ) and will block any matching strings contained in both the release name as well as _exact_ matches.

You can include strings for the full, exact name of a torrent or file (e.g., `"The.Best.Movie.Ever.2024.DV.HDR.Atmos.mkv"`), partial name/keywords (e.g., `best.movie.ever`), or the infoHash from a torrent you wish to block.

### [`apiAuth`](./basics/options.md#apiauth) (removed) and [`apiKey`](./basics/options.md#apikey) (added) Options

`cross-seed` endpoints (announce and webhook) now _require_ API authentication. There are two ways to set up API authentication in v6:

1. Generated Key: By setting [`apiKey`](./basics/options.md#apikey) to `undefined`, `cross-seed` will continue to use a generated key. You can find this key by running `cross-seed api-key`.

    **This is recommended for most users.**

2. Designated Key: You can now set a designated API key for `cross-seed`. Setting [`apiKey: "YOURkeyHereMak3It@good1",`](./basics/options.md#apikey) in the config file will tell `cross-seed` to always use that key.

The `apiAuth` option in previous versions of `cross-seed` has been removed.

:::warning
While we provide this option, we strongly urge you to use a generated key. If you are specifying a key, please make sure this is a secure and safe key. You are responsible for your security.
:::

### Searching Improvements

:::caution
Currently, only Movies, TV Series, and Anime are officially supported.
:::

#### Anime Support (experimental)

Anime is now supported in a **_somewhat limited_** capacity. Please note that this is our first attempt at accommodating this content, so your experience may vary depending on your indexers and content.

We've aimed to cover the inconsistent and unconventional naming conventions that prevail in anime content, but there may be certain naming styles, from specific groups or indexers, that we haven't accounted for.

:::tip HELP
If you come across any anime naming schemes (**not _ONE_ "edge-case" release**) that we've missed, please let us know [**via Discord**](https://discord.gg/jpbUFzS5Wb).
:::

#### Partial Matching

We've introduced a new mode for [`matchMode`](./basics/options#matchmode) named `partial`.

This mode is similar to `risky` but doesn't necessitate all files to be present. The minimum required "match size" is determined by `1 - fuzzySizeThreshold`. For instance, with a `fuzzySizeThreshold` of `0.05`, potential cross-seeds containing only 95% of the original size will match. This mode is designed to identify cross-seeds missing small files such as nfo, srt, or sample files.

:::tip
Torrents added via `partial` matchMode will always behave as if [`skipRecheck`](./basics/options.md#skiprecheck) is `false`. It's advised not to set [`fuzzySizeThreshold`](./basics/options#fuzzysizethreshold) above `0.1` to avoid [triggering excessive snatches](./basics/faq-troubleshooting.md#my-tracker-is-mad-at-me-for-snatching-too-many-torrent-files), **which could lead to the banning or disabling of your account on your trackers.**
:::

#### Torznab Categories

`cross-seed` will now check with Prowlarr or Jackett for the categories that that indexer supports. As a result, we no longer send searches for content that is not listed by Prowlarr/Jackett as available on the indexer.

This should reduce the number of searches made for content that does not have a chance of existing on the indexer.

:::info Note
This requires no additional action to be taken on your part.
:::

#### [`Sonarr`](./basics/options.md#sonarr) and [`Radarr`](./basics/options.md#radarr) ID Lookup (searching)

`cross-seed` now has the ability to, when configured, query an instance of [Sonarr](./basics/options.md#sonarr) or [Radarr](./basics/options.md#radarr) for the metadata - specifically the TVDB, TMDB, and IMDB IDs. These can be used on supporting indexers to search more accurately and completely.

You do not have to do anything besides add your Sonarr and Radarr instances, with apikey (similar to the [`torznab`](./basics/options.md#torznab) URL from [Prowlarr](https://prowlarr.com/) or [Jackett](https://github.com/Jackett/Jackett)), to the configuration options in `config.js`.

`cross-seed` will use IDs to search wherever it can.

:::info
The series or movie **must be added in your instance of Sonarr or Radarr.** You **DO NOT** need to have actual media _imported_, but **the entry must exist**

"Missing" status is valid.

**We do not query any external metadata servers.**
:::

### Other Miscellaneous Changes

Here is a short list of other changes made in v6. These are all behind-the-scenes updates made to improve `cross-seed`.

-   Updated to Node v20, ES2022, and TypeScript v5
-   Any indexer failures not related to rate limiting (status code: `429`) will be cleared from the database when `cross-seed` is restarted.
-   Regex improvements. Some trackers rename search results or have non-standard naming conventions. The updated regex takes more of those into account and should find more matches.
-   Improved logging messages, specifically around matching decisions.
-   There are now lists of files/folders integrated into `cross-seed` that are blocked during prefiltering at startup. These include folders present inside full-disc Bluray/DVD releases (BDMV/CERTIFICATE), individual music files, RAR archives, and season folders (e.g. "Season 01") in Sonarr libraries. Excluding these from the `cross-seed` index (for data-based searches) will result in fewer "bad" searches that would otherwise yield no viable results.
-   New recommended defaults in [`config.template.js`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cross-seed/cross-seed/master/src/config.template.cjs). These settings are what we consider to be the best starting options when setting up `cross-seed`.

Commit message:

add(ensemble): search improvements section

docs/v6-migration.md, after:

---
id: v6-migration
title: v6 Migration Guide
position: 0
---

### Updates Since Initial Pre-Release

Since the initial pre-release (`6.0.0-0`) we've worked with our users and friends to iron out implementations in the most reasonable and usable way possible. As we proceed through the pre-release/testing phase for v6, further changes may be made. They will all be documented here prior to releases.

The majority of the trade-offs we've had to make have been for enhancements and meaningful features. While this update will require some users to rethink, or reconfigure, certain aspects of their setup or workflow to accommodate this; these changes were, unfortunately, unavoidable.

The enhancements we've added and changes we've made are outlined in this migration guide.

:::tip QBittorrent
While we previously advised qBittorrent users to hold off on the initial pre-release (`6.0.0-0`), we feel we now have `cross-seed` in a usable state for those users. There are [some changes](#qbittorrent) that should be noted before updating to help test. We recommend backing up your configuration directory before testing any pre-release versions.
:::

:::info Be advised
**Please read this guide thoroughly and keep in mind that it will be updated throughout the pre-release process, and after, as we fine-tune the details for clarity.**
:::

## Overview

There are several changes in `cross-seed` version 6.x. Most of them do not require any action on your part while some need to be addressed in both the configuration file ([`config.js`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cross-seed/cross-seed/master/src/config.template.cjs)) and potentially permissions or volumes/mounts.

This document outlines the changes made and the actions required to take advantage of all the new features and capabilities.

:::danger Please Note
**This is currently a pre-release of v6.** Your mileage _may vary_ on behavior and performance. We **always** recommend that before updating you make a backup of your **entire** configuration directory.

Please let us know if you run into any issues [**via Discord**](https://discord.gg/jpbUFzS5Wb)
:::

### Breaking Changes (TLDR)

| Scope or Area      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| qBittorrent        | Changes were necessary for linking enhancements made and compatibility with AutoTMM and qBittorrent. <br/><br/>`duplicateCategories` previous behavior has migrated to `.cross-seed` appended category being tagged on the cross-seeded torrent. All cross-seeds will go to linkCategory when linked and injected.<br/><br/>([Read More](#qbittorrent)) |
| API authentication | [`apiAuth`](./basics/options.md#apiauth) option was removed and the optional [`apiKey`](./basics/options.md#apikey) option was added.<br/><br/> If unspecified, cross-seed will use an autogenerated API key. [Use the API key](./reference/api#authorization) when you make calls to the `/api/webhook` endpoint and the `/api/announce` endpoint.     |
| Node               | Minimum required version: [v20](https://nodejs.org/en/download)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

:::caution HEADS-UP!
`cross-seed` v6 requires Node 20 or greater. Check your Node version with `node --version` and update if needed.

**Docker users can skip this step.**
:::

:::tip
You can grab the new [`config.template.js`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cross-seed/cross-seed/master/src/config.template.cjs) and simply go through and migrate your missing options over to your current `config.js`. Alternatively, you can add them yourself by referencing our documentation.

-   [`dataCategory -> linkCategory`](./basics/options.md#linkcategory)

-   [`apiAuth -> apiKey`](./basics/options.md#apikey)

-   [`flatLinking`](./basics/options.md#flatlinking)

-   [`blockList`](./basics/options.md#blocklist)

-   [`seasonFromEpisodes`](./basics/options.md#seasonfromepisodes)

:::

### Stricter `config.js` Validation

One of the biggest changes made in v6 is better config validation and error messaging. Each option in the config file is validated for formatting and proper syntax. If either is incorrect, a detailed error message will tell you where and how to fix each option.

The new error messages will also provide links to specific documentation for the option and point out bad paths or permission errors if you have any.

This is not going to automatically fix anything for you, but will give you a better starting point to try and solve the issue yourself before requiring outside assistance.

### Linking Updates

We have made drastic changes to the way linking operates, both in its implementation and in expanding its capabilities. Not only is linking more versatile in what can be matched now (for instance, previously, files inside/outside a folder would not match to a torrent in the opposite folder structure - this has been fixed), but you can also take advantage of linking when searching .torrent files instead of solely applying to data-based matching.

To achieve torrent linking, you simply have to mount or give permission (if necessary) for `cross-seed` to read and write to the actual torrent data structure (downloaded files) your client uses. This will need to mirror (for docker) the mounts made in the client. Your client will also need to be able to read and write to the [`linkDir`](./basics/options.md#linkdir) folder. You do not need to specify a [`dataDirs`](./basics/options.md#datadirs) in your conig for this setup, but simply define a [`linkDir`](./basics/options.md#linkdir).

:::tip
You can still include a [`dataDirs`](./basics/options.md#datadirs) if you wish to also index and search your data, but [`dataDirs`](./basics/options.md#datadirs) isnt necessary to utilize linking behavior now.
:::

The new default linking structure in v6 in your [`linkDir`](./basics/options.md#linkdir) creates sub-folders for each indexer (for example, `/link_dir/Indexer 1/Name.of.Torrent.File.mkv`). This doesn't change or affect previously matched torrents, but if enabled will follow this new structure moving forward. Your `Indexer 1` will be the name of the indexer in Prowlarr/Jackett or [autobrr](#autobrr-update).

:::warning BE ADVISED
Auto Torrent Management in qBittorrent has presented some hurdles with implementing the new linking enhancements with qBittorrent.

**Please read the next part of this section carefully to determine what settings you will require to achieve the best results.**

During this transitional process, you can get support [**via Discord**](https://discord.gg/jpbUFzS5Wb) if you require assistance with any of the configurations.
:::

#### qBittorrent

Due to the limitations in place with qBittorrent and Auto Torrent Management's behavior, we've introduced a new option in support of the feature-sets and changes we have added.

If you are using Auto Torrent Management (AutoTMM) **in any capacity, we strongly recommend** that you enable [`flatLinking`](./basics/options.md#flatlinking) to acheive the matching and linking behavior we've added to v6. You will still be able to take advantage of the [matching enhancements](#partial-matching) in v6 with your searches.

`cross-seed` will inject all linked torrents directly to the [`linkCategory`](./basics/options.md#linkcategory) if linking is possible, otherwise direct torrent matches will behave the same as they did in v5.

### autobrr Update

If you're using [`flatLinking: false`](./basics/options.md#flatlinking), when receiving announces with the old data payload in your cross-seed autobrr filter, you might notice inconsistencies in the folders created from ones created with a search.

To address this, [autobrr's macros and documentation have been updated](https://autobrr.com/3rd-party-tools#cross-seed-filter). There is now a new macro to accommodate the new linking structure. By updating your data payload with the provided code, autobrr will now send the indexer's name from `Settings -> Indexers` instead of the "indexer identifier".

```json
{
    "name": "{{ .TorrentName }}",
    "guid": "{{ .TorrentUrl }}",
    "link": "{{ .TorrentUrl }}",
    "tracker": "{{ .IndexerName | js}}"
}
```

Simply ensure that you've updated your data and the indexer's name in autobrr matches the one in Prowlarr/Jackett, and everything will align correctly in your [`linkDir`](./basics/options.md#linkdir).

### Updated [`torrentDir`](./basics/options.md#torrentdir) Option

Previously, our recommendation if you wanted to strictly search only [`dataDirs`](./basics/options.md#datadirs) for matches was to point [`torrentDir`](./basics/options.md#torrentdir) at an empty folder. This is no longer necessary. You can now set [`torrentDir`](./basics/options.md#torrentdir) to `null` to achieve a data-only search.

### New [`blockList`](./basics/options.md#blocklist) Option

Another new option added is called [`blockList`](./basics/options.md#blocklist). This option takes an array of strings (e.g. `["example", "example2"]` ) and will block any matching strings contained in both the release name as well as _exact_ matches.

You can include strings for the full, exact name of a torrent or file (e.g., `"The.Best.Movie.Ever.2024.DV.HDR.Atmos.mkv"`), partial name/keywords (e.g., `best.movie.ever`), or the infoHash from a torrent you wish to block.

### [`apiAuth`](./basics/options.md#apiauth) (removed) and [`apiKey`](./basics/options.md#apikey) (added) Options

`cross-seed` endpoints (announce and webhook) now _require_ API authentication. There are two ways to set up API authentication in v6:

1. Generated Key: By setting [`apiKey`](./basics/options.md#apikey) to `undefined`, `cross-seed` will continue to use a generated key. You can find this key by running `cross-seed api-key`.

    **This is recommended for most users.**

2. Designated Key: You can now set a designated API key for `cross-seed`. Setting [`apiKey: "YOURkeyHereMak3It@good1",`](./basics/options.md#apikey) in the config file will tell `cross-seed` to always use that key.

The `apiAuth` option in previous versions of `cross-seed` has been removed.

:::warning
While we provide this option, we strongly urge you to use a generated key. If you are specifying a key, please make sure this is a secure and safe key. You are responsible for your security.
:::

### Searching Improvements

:::caution
Currently, only Movies, TV Series, and Anime are officially supported.
:::

#### Anime Support (experimental)

Anime is now supported in a **_somewhat limited_** capacity. Please note that this is our first attempt at accommodating this content, so your experience may vary depending on your indexers and content.

We've aimed to cover the inconsistent and unconventional naming conventions that prevail in anime content, but there may be certain naming styles, from specific groups or indexers, that we haven't accounted for.

:::tip HELP
If you come across any anime naming schemes (**not _ONE_ "edge-case" release**) that we've missed, please let us know [**via Discord**](https://discord.gg/jpbUFzS5Wb).
:::

#### Partial Matching

We've introduced a new mode for [`matchMode`](./basics/options#matchmode) named `partial`.

This mode is similar to `risky` but doesn't necessitate all files to be present. The minimum required "match size" is determined by `1 - fuzzySizeThreshold`. For instance, with a `fuzzySizeThreshold` of `0.05`, potential cross-seeds containing only 95% of the original size will match. This mode is designed to identify cross-seeds missing small files such as nfo, srt, or sample files.

:::tip
Torrents added via `partial` matchMode will always behave as if [`skipRecheck`](./basics/options.md#skiprecheck) is `false`. It's advised not to set [`fuzzySizeThreshold`](./basics/options#fuzzysizethreshold) above `0.1` to avoid [triggering excessive snatches](./basics/faq-troubleshooting.md#my-tracker-is-mad-at-me-for-snatching-too-many-torrent-files), **which could lead to the banning or disabling of your account on your trackers.**
:::

#### Torznab Categories

`cross-seed` will now check with Prowlarr or Jackett for the categories that that indexer supports. As a result, we no longer send searches for content that is not listed by Prowlarr/Jackett as available on the indexer.

This should reduce the number of searches made for content that does not have a chance of existing on the indexer.

:::info Note
This requires no additional action to be taken on your part.
:::

#### [`Sonarr`](./basics/options.md#sonarr) and [`Radarr`](./basics/options.md#radarr) ID Lookup (searching)

`cross-seed` now has the ability to, when configured, query an instance of [Sonarr](./basics/options.md#sonarr) or [Radarr](./basics/options.md#radarr) for the metadata - specifically the TVDB, TMDB, and IMDB IDs. These can be used on supporting indexers to search more accurately and completely.

You do not have to do anything besides add your Sonarr and Radarr instances, with apikey (similar to the [`torznab`](./basics/options.md#torznab) URL from [Prowlarr](https://prowlarr.com/) or [Jackett](https://github.com/Jackett/Jackett)), to the configuration options in `config.js`.

`cross-seed` will use IDs to search wherever it can.

:::info
The series or movie **must be added in your instance of Sonarr or Radarr.** You **DO NOT** need to have actual media _imported_, but **the entry must exist**

"Missing" status is valid.

**We do not query any external metadata servers.**
:::

#### Ensemble or "Torrent Aggregation"

Many of you may be familiar with things like [seasonpackarr](https://github.com/nuxencs/seasonpackarr) which - for qBittorrent - will aggregate/join your already downloaded episodes into season packs when they are combined and uploaded on your trackers, and inject them. `cross-seed` can now do the same, and potentially more, linking and then creating a "combined" set of matching torrents or data to get you seeding data you already have faster. This applies to things like season packs, but also could be used in other cases like multi-season or potentially movie packs.

This functionality for season packs is linked to the new option, `seasonFromEpisodes` - which can be set to either `true` or `false`.

### Other Miscellaneous Changes

Here is a short list of other changes made in v6. These are all behind-the-scenes updates made to improve `cross-seed`.

-   Updated to Node v20, ES2022, and TypeScript v5
-   Any indexer failures not related to rate limiting (status code: `429`) will be cleared from the database when `cross-seed` is restarted.
-   Regex improvements. Some trackers rename search results or have non-standard naming conventions. The updated regex takes more of those into account and should find more matches.
-   Improved logging messages, specifically around matching decisions.
-   There are now lists of files/folders integrated into `cross-seed` that are blocked during prefiltering at startup. These include folders present inside full-disc Bluray/DVD releases (BDMV/CERTIFICATE), individual music files, RAR archives, and season folders (e.g. "Season 01") in Sonarr libraries. Excluding these from the `cross-seed` index (for data-based searches) will result in fewer "bad" searches that would otherwise yield no viable results.
-   New recommended defaults in [`config.template.js`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cross-seed/cross-seed/master/src/config.template.cjs). These settings are what we consider to be the best starting options when setting up `cross-seed`.
